.TH PO-DIFF 1 "February 2026" "po-diff 0.1.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
po\-diff \- compare two PO files and show translation changes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B po\-diff
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIOLD_FILE\fR \fINEW_FILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpo\-diff\fR compares two PO (gettext) translation files and reports
the differences. It shows added, removed, and modified translations,
making it easy to review changes between file versions.
.PP
Unlike generic diff tools, po\-diff understands PO file structure and
compares entries by their msgid, providing meaningful translation\-aware
diffs instead of raw line differences.
.PP
Exit codes: 0 = no differences, 1 = differences found, 2 = usage error.
.SH POSITIONAL ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I OLD_FILE
Path to the old/original PO file (the baseline for comparison).
.TP
.I NEW_FILE
Path to the new/updated PO file (the version to compare against).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format. Choices:
.RS
.TP
\fBtext\fR (default)
Human\-readable colored text output showing added, removed, and
modified entries with context.
.TP
\fBjson\fR
Structured JSON output with arrays for added, removed, and modified
entries. Each entry includes msgid, old msgstr, and new msgstr.
.TP
\fBhtml\fR
Standalone HTML report with syntax\-highlighted diffs, suitable for
sharing or archiving.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fIFILE\fR
Save the diff report to a file instead of printing to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version number and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Files are identical (no translation differences).
.TP
.B 1
Differences found.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error (file not found, invalid format).
.SH EXAMPLES
Compare two versions of a Swedish translation:
.PP
.RS
.nf
po\-diff po/sv.po.old po/sv.po
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate a JSON diff:
.PP
.RS
.nf
po\-diff \-\-format json old.po new.po
.fi
.RE
.PP
Save an HTML report:
.PP
.RS
.nf
po\-diff \-\-format html \-\-output changes.html v1/sv.po v2/sv.po
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR l10n\-lint (1),
.BR po\-translate (1),
.BR diff (1),
.BR msgmerge (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Daniel Nylander <daniel@danielnylander.se>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/yeager/po\-diff/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Daniel Nylander. License: GPL\-3.0\-or\-later.
